.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mlstats.1
.\"
.TH MLSTATS 1 "JUNE 2007" Libresoft-tools "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
mlstats \- Mailing lists analysis tool. Part of libresoft-tools.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mlstats [options] [URL1] [URL2] ... [URLn]

where URL1, URL2, ...., URLn are the URLs of the archive web pages of the
mailing list. If they are a local dir instead of a remote url, the directory
will be recursively scanned for mbox files. If the option
.B "-"
is passed instead
of a URL(s), the URLs will be read from the standard input.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mlstats
Mailing List Stats is a tool to analyze mailing list archives. 
It can retrieve the archives from a remote web page (usually, the archives web
page), or read them from a local directory. It generates a brief report, and
write everything to a MySQL database (called mlstats unless other name is
indicated). 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -h, --help
Print a help message containing the options of the tool.
.IP -q, --quiet
Do not show messages about the progress in the retrieval and analysis of the
archives. 
.IP --version
Show the version number and exit.
.IP - 
Read URLs from the standard input. This will ignore all the URLs passed via the
command line. See
.BR EXAMPLES
below for details.
.IP --report-file reportfilename
Filename for the report generated after the analysis  (default is standard
output)
WARNING: The report file will be overwritten if already exists.
.IP --no-report
Do not generate report after the retrieval and parsing of the archives.
.IP --web-user
If the archives of the mailing list are private, use this username to login in
order to retrieve the files.
.IP --web-password
If the archives of the mailing list are private, use this password to login in
order to retrieve the files.
.IP --db-user
Username to connect to the database (default is operator).
.IP --db-password
Password to connect to the database (default is operator).
.IP --db-name
Name of the database that contains data previously analyzed (default is
mlstats).
.IP --db-hostname
Name of the host with a database server running (default is localhost).
.IP --db-admin-user
Username to create the mlstats database (default is root).
.IP --db-admin-password
Password to create the mlstats database (default is empty).
.SH FILES
.I ~/.mlstats/compressed/
.RS
This directory contains all the compressed archives that are downloaded to be
analyzed. All the files and subdirectories contained in this directory may be
safely removed.
.RE
.I ~/.mlstats/mbox/
.RS
This directory contains all the archives that are going to be analyzed, or have
been already analyzed. If an analysis of a particular mailing list is repeated,
all the files that have been already downloaded and analyzed will not be
downloaded neither analyzed again. If the contains of this directory are
removed, the old archives will be downloaded in future analysis. In any case,
those messages that have been parsed and analyzed will not be again stored in
the database.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.B $ mlstats --db-user="root" --db-password="" --no-report http://my.mailinglist.com/archives/ /home/user/some/mboxes/
.RS
This will download all the archives from http://my.mailinglist.com/archives/,
and will scan /home/user/some/mboxes/ searching for mboxes. 
.RE
.B $ cat list_of_urls | mlstats --db-user="root" --db-password="" --no-report -
.RS
This will take all the URLs (or local directories) in the file
.C list_of_urls.
URLs can be in separated lines, or separated by spaces or tabs.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Israel Herraiz <herraiz at computer dot org>
